What is it?
===========

Typo is a lean and mean weblog. Weblogs are cool, weblogs are "in" and
everyone who writes code has an different opinion on how a weblog
should be written. Typo is our take on it. Its meant for programmers
who can extend and change the source to make it fit to their needs but
will eventually be useful to normal users as well.

Requirements
============

Currently you need all of those things to get typo to run:

 * Ruby -v of 1.8.2 (25-05-2004) or higher.  Ruby 1.8.3 will work, as long 
   as you use Rails 0.14.0 or higher.
 * Rails 0.13.1 or Rails 0.14.x.
 * A database.  Typo supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite.
 * Ruby drivers for your database.
 * For best performance, you should have a web server running either
   Apache or Lighttpd along with FastCGI, although these aren't
   strictly required--you can use Ruby's built-in web server for
   low-volume testing.

Installation
============

Unpack the tgz or zip in some directory.

Decide which database to use. We support Sqlite, MySQL, and Postgres,
but Sqlite doesn't have full support for database migrations in Rails
0.13.1.

  * Create a database for typo. You can find matching schemas in the
    db/ folder. 
  * Change the config/database.yml to reflect your newly created
    database configuration  
  * Run script/server -e production and see if it works  
  * Point your browser to http://your.domain.com:3000/ and follow the
    install process

If you want to deploy on fastcgi you will need to follow the setup
instructions on the typo page at
http://typo.leetsoft.com/trac.cgi/wiki/FastCgi

Permissions
===========

Typo needs write access to several directories in order to function
correctly. These need to be writable by the user that runs the Typo
process--in a hosted environment this may be your user; on dedicated
systems it may be something like 'httpd' or 'www-data'.

The specific directories in question are 'log/' (and everything
underneath it) and 'public/'. Strictly speaking, Rails will continue
to work if public isn't writable, but none of Typo's caching code will
work properly. For the security conscious, Rails really only needs the
ability to change a half-dozen files and subdirectories under public/,
ask on the Typo mailing list for more details.

Usage
======

Typo's administrative interface is available at
http://your.domain.com/admin. You can use this to post articles and
change Typo's configuration settings. For posting new content, you can
either use this administrative web interface or a desktop blog editor
like MarsEdit or Ecto. For a short list of clients which are confirmed
to work please visit http://typo.leetsoft.com.

Client setup
============

Set your desktop client to Movable Type API and enter
http://your.domain.com/backend/xmlrpc as endpoint address.

Tell me about your blog
=======================

Add yourself to the list of typo blogs at http://typo.leetsoft.com and
subscribe to the typo mailing list.


Enjoy,
Your typo team
